# i18n interface translations

The i18n mechanism is a library that allows you to add interface translations more easily.<br>
In our application we used a ready-made solution based on the [nuxt/i18n][i18n] library.<br>

### Introduction
---
The main configuration of the library is located in the file `nuxt.config.js`, <br>
there are the most important things needed to run the library on our system. <br>
The mechanism for changing the language is embedded in the user profile <br>
and the language is set when the user logs in. <br>

The [nuxt/i18n][i18n] library is compressed with [VueMS][vuems],
which helps to create target files with a translator.<br>

> There must always be a default language, here it is **English**. <br>
The translations must have these translations in order to be displayed correctly.<br>
If you set a language to which there is no translation, the default language will be inserted.

### Structure
---

Ergonode modular architecture allows you to add separate translations to each module.<br>
Then [VueMS][vuems] combines the translation file from all the modules <br>
and provides a complete translation file, which is used by the [nuxt/i18n][i18n] library.<br>
In the `nuxt.config.js`. file, [VueMS][vuems] has its own setting to determine whether <br>
the project uses the [nuxt/i18n][i18n] library and which languages are supported.

```javascript
    vuems: {
        i18n: true,
        i18nLocales: [
            'en_GB',
            'pl_PL',
        ],
        ...
    },
```

Translation files are loaded as needed, and the entire supervision mechanism is placed in **Core** module on `i18n.js ` plugin.

The global `this.$setInterfaceLanguage()` method is responsible for language setting.<br>
The global method `$t()` is responsible for substituting translations.


> Translations with the same keys will be overwritten (depending on the order of loading the modules).

### Add translations
---
For translations in the module corresponds to the directory `locales` and JSON files with translations.<br>
The name of the translation file must be the same as the language code in which we translate (e.g. `en_GB.json`).<br>

Translations have a specific pattern for creating JSON structures:

`@ModuleName.context.?space.?fileName.itemName`

- `@ModuleName` - **(required)** module name. Ideally, aliases created for modules should be used as names
- `context` - **(required)** context name. If there are multiple business contexts in the module. (attribute, attributeGroup).
- `space` - the name of the element use space, e.g. component, page, store.
- `fileName` - the name of the file in which the element to be translated is located.
- `itemName` - **(required)** translation item name.

> An additional designation is `_`, which specifies global elements for a particular space. That is, universal or recurring elements.

<div class="Alert Alert--warning">

It is important to start the structure of the translation object with the **name of the module** in which the translation is located.

</div>

Translations in JSON format:

```json
    {
        "@Attributes": {
            "_": {
                "submit": "Save changes",
            },
            "attribute": {
                "_": {
                    "title": "Attributes",
                },
                "components": {
                    "AttributeForm": {
                        "title": "Options",
                    }
                },
                "pages": {
                    "id": {
                        "getRequest": "Attribute hasn’t been fetched properly"
                    }
                },
                "store": {
                    "action": {
                        "createCancel": "Creating attribute has been canceled",
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
```
which is then used in the application code.

```html
    <TitleBar :title="$t('@Attributes.attribute._.title')">
        ...
    <TitleBar>
```

Adding a new translator language involves adding a new translator file.

**`en_GB.json`:**
```json
    {
        "@Attributes": {
            "attribute": {
                "_": {
                    "title": "Attributes",
                }
            },
            "attributeGroup": {
                "_": {
                    "title": "Attribute Group",
                }
            }
        }
    }
```
**`pl_PL.json`:**
```json
    {
        "@Attributes": {
            "attribute": {
                "_": {
                    "title": "Atrybuty",
                }
            },
            "attributeGroup": {
                "_": {
                    "title": "Grupy atrybutów",
                }
            }
        }
    }
```

[i18n]: https://i18n.nuxtjs.org/
[vuems]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ergonode/vuems